README.md, before:

# Fortitudo OpenMRS Infrastructure

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fortitudoinc/fortitudoinc-infra.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fortitudoinc/fortitudoinc-infra)

This repo contains the Fortitudo OpenMRS docker deployment

## Overview

The software stack consists of three docker containers: an nginx TLS proxy (with TLS certificates managed by letsencypt), a tomcat server with OpenMRS reference application installed, and a MySQL 5.6 database backend.

![software stack](stack.png)

## Requirements
- docker
- docker-compose

## Usage

### Option #1: create new database in a container

```bash
mkdir /path/to/your/backups
export BACKUPS_PATH=/path/to/your/backups
source environments/example-new-db.env
docker-compose -f new-db.yml up -d
```

### Option #2: load sql dumpfile into a container

```bash
mkdir /path/to/your/backups
export BACKUPS_PATH=/path/to/your/backups
mkdir db
mv /path/to/your/dump.sql ./db/
source environments/example-reuse-db.env
docker-compose -f load-db.yml up -d
```

### Option #3: use an existing database on the network

```bash
source environments/example-existing-db.env
docker-compose -f existing-db.yml up -d
```

## Environment variables

See `environments/` directory for examples of how to set up in each situation.

### MySQL Options
- MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: password for the root user of the mysql 5.6 database
- MYSQL_DATABASE: A database to setup when creating the mysql container

### OpenMRS Options
- DB_HOST: Address of database server (must specify if using existing-db.yml, ignored otherwise)
- DB_DATABASE: The database used
- DB_USERNAME: The username used to connect to the database container
- DB_PASSWORD: The password used  to connect to the database container
- DB_CREATE_TABLES: (`true`/`false`) Whether new tables should be created or existing ones used
- MODULE_WEB_ADMIN: (`true`/`false`) Whether to allow modules to be uploaded via the web interface
- OPENMRS_ADMIN_PASSWORD: Administrative password (must be a combination of upper case, lower case, and digits)

### Nginx Options
- URL: The FQDN to use for the TLS certificate
- STAGING: (`true`/`false`)
    - If true: will use a non-valid certificate, but will not be rate-limited by letsencrypt service (use this option for testing)
    - If false: will use a valid certificate, but will be rate-limited by letsencrypt (use this option for production deployments)
- TZ: optional time zone
- EMAIL: an email address for the server administrator (for letsencrypt security notices, etc.)

### Backup Options (optional, for use with backup.py as cron job)
- BACKUP_PATH: Path to a directory used to store db backups 
- BACKUP_RETENTION: Number of backups to hold on the file system before deleting the oldest

Commit message:

Remember to build when adding custom omods

README.md, after:

# Fortitudo OpenMRS Infrastructure

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fortitudoinc/fortitudoinc-infra.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fortitudoinc/fortitudoinc-infra)

This repo contains the Fortitudo OpenMRS docker deployment

## Overview

The software stack consists of three docker containers: an nginx TLS proxy (with TLS certificates managed by letsencypt), a tomcat server with OpenMRS reference application installed, and a MySQL 5.6 database backend.

![software stack](stack.png)

## Requirements
- docker
- docker-compose

## Usage

### Option #1: create new database in a container

```bash
mkdir /path/to/your/backups
export BACKUPS_PATH=/path/to/your/backups
source environments/example-new-db.env
docker-compose -f new-db.yml up -d
```

### Option #2: load sql dumpfile into a container

```bash
mkdir /path/to/your/backups
export BACKUPS_PATH=/path/to/your/backups
mkdir db
mv /path/to/your/dump.sql ./db/
source environments/example-reuse-db.env
docker-compose -f load-db.yml up -d
```

### Option #3: use an existing database on the network

```bash
source environments/example-existing-db.env
docker-compose -f existing-db.yml up -d
```

## Adding custom modules (omod files)

To launch the reference application with custom modules, drop your .omod files into `./refapp/omods/`. In addition, append the `--build` flag to the docker-compose command, i.e. `docker-compose -f existing-db.yml up -d --build`


## Environment variables

See `environments/` directory for examples of how to set up in each situation.

### MySQL Options
- MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: password for the root user of the mysql 5.6 database
- MYSQL_DATABASE: A database to setup when creating the mysql container

### OpenMRS Options
- DB_HOST: Address of database server (must specify if using existing-db.yml, ignored otherwise)
- DB_DATABASE: The database used
- DB_USERNAME: The username used to connect to the database container
- DB_PASSWORD: The password used  to connect to the database container
- DB_CREATE_TABLES: (`true`/`false`) Whether new tables should be created or existing ones used
- MODULE_WEB_ADMIN: (`true`/`false`) Whether to allow modules to be uploaded via the web interface
- OPENMRS_ADMIN_PASSWORD: Administrative password (must be a combination of upper case, lower case, and digits)

### Nginx Options
- URL: The FQDN to use for the TLS certificate
- STAGING: (`true`/`false`)
    - If true: will use a non-valid certificate, but will not be rate-limited by letsencrypt service (use this option for testing)
    - If false: will use a valid certificate, but will be rate-limited by letsencrypt (use this option for production deployments)
- TZ: optional time zone
- EMAIL: an email address for the server administrator (for letsencrypt security notices, etc.)

### Backup Options (optional, for use with backup.py as cron job)
- BACKUP_PATH: Path to a directory used to store db backups 
- BACKUP_RETENTION: Number of backups to hold on the file system before deleting the oldest
